welcome to borealis borealis is unlike
any other solar home not only is it Net
Zero visually captivating and
architectural unique borealis is a
solution to a societal need in Alberta
Canada we have the highest growth rate
of any Canadian province with workers
relocating for opportunities in resource
industries such as mining forestry and
energy however due to this large
population influx quality housing is in
short supply team Alberta has addressed
this gap by designing a NetZero home
that solves the needs of our target
market and is ecologically sustainable
keeping in mind our target market of
remote communities we serve to design a
home that could be constructed off-site
and easily transportable so from the
very beginning we knew borealis had to
be a modular design the two living
spaces are for two individuals care the
center unit the center unit consists of
the mechanical room the bathroom and the
kitchen the kitchen is a shared space
where these two individuals can cook
work and collaborate borealis is modular
design creates flexibility and
convenience in the interior each living
space is furnished from identical set of
pieces that are multifunctional to suit
entertaining or work needs our desire
for borealis to have a strong connection
with the outdoors year-round inspired us
to install the living wall in the
bathroom the living wall naturally
increases air quality through
photosynthesis and cools of surrounding
air through transpiration we have also
provided private outdoor deck spaces for
the users to enjoy the natural
surroundings
placing the mechanical room in the
center module fit with our engineering
design philosophy where are we specified
that site connections for electrical
HVAC plumbing and sprinklers should be
kept to the absolute minimum a
photovoltaic array with size for 10
kilowatts and paired with 40 micro
inverters provide AC electricity for use
in the home the primary method for
heating and cooling the home is with a
two ton heat pump evacuated collector
tubes and an insulated hot water storage
tank were also added to maximize our
harvest of solar energy we angle their
queue side modules in order to maximize
solar exposure on the panels we
alternated the angle of the center
module in order to create high ceilings
above our kitchen and the two bedrooms
in the house it also gives us an
opportunity to create passive
ventilation in the home by having
strategically placed windows at the high
points of the home we take advantage of
stack effect so as hot air rises is
actually pulled out of the house to the
high points of the home where we have
placed these windows every living space
within the house can use daylight as a
primary source of lighting to supplement
the natural light we chose to install
the LED fixtures LED lighting is also
installed in the design of the exterior
deck spaces we knew that working
professionals would want a convenient
intuitive system for managing the
lighting heating and electronics in
borealis so we integrated user-friendly
controls there are daylight sensors that
automatically adjust the lighting levels
in the living spaces and an occupancy
sensor in the bathroom to reduce energy
consumption one of the unique elements
of borealis is the high velocity climate
control system this allows the homeowner
to set five separate interior climate
zones which can be controlled by any
mobile device as well as the thermostats
in the home creating an incredibly
comfortable living environment borealis
is perfect for working professionals as
it requires very little maintenance and
the life expectancy of equipment is 20
to 25 years you've heard team Alberta
discuss in detail how borealis offers
comfort privacy and sustainability for
its inhabitants providing a solution to
a societal need in Alberta Canada thank
you for joining us on our journey in
solving housing needs and remote
resource industries borealis is a home
away from home